As the saying goes "From Humble beginnings come Greater things", We look back at the Genesis of our Cloud PEP which was founded by the two visionaries: Mr. Karthik, Staff Coordinator of AWS Cloud PEP and Mr. Raghul Gopal, AWS Community Builder on June 2023! The program was kicked off with Cloud Introduction sessions taken for our first batch of students (2021-2025 batch) by Mr. Raghul and Mrs. Megha.
Then, we fired up our pioneer batch of students towards getting their first AWS Certification -The AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner and as a result, many of our third-year students passed their Certification exam with flying colors and have earned their well-deserved Certifications, this early season concluded with an innovative hackathon conducted amongst our third year Cloud PEP students, which was mentored by a panel of Cloud Industry Professionals.
Next, an exhilarating era began to unfold as our second batch of students (batch 2022-2026) entered the arena on November 2023. Both batches collaborated and started working together as something thrilling was looming in the horizon. Yes! preparations for our AWS Student Community Day 2024 commenced with a full swing. This Month also is special to us as we saw the remarkable achievement of Mr. Raja N, A student from our senior batch who was the first to acquire an AWS associate level Certification - The AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate.
The tireless work of our Students and Staff paid off as our AWS Student Community Day 2024 conducted on February 15 and 16,2024 was a grand success with registrations exceeding 2000 and a participant crowd of more than 500 student participants and 300+ Industry Participants. This Event Consisted of three tracks which were GenAI-ML, Security-Career Guidance and Serverless- DataOps with more than 30 exciting sessions conducted by 40+ speakers. This conference was attended by leading delegates in the AWS world like Ms. Jen Looper, Head of the AWS Advocacy Team and Mrs. Aditi Sawhney, Sr. Digital Marketing Manager at AWS.
Meanwhile, two more milestones were made as A team of Students from both of the batches accomplished in perfecting our first and own GenAI Robot named as Nephele with outstanding capabilities, which became a centre of Attraction at our community day and was appreciated by many of our attendees, and the other was Mr. Jensen Jose, another student from our premier batch became the second student in our cloud PEP to attain the AWS Solutions Architect Associate Level Certification.
After this, The Cloud Practitioner Certification Preparation of our second batch started with the effort of selfless and talented students from our senior batch, spending their time with their juniors and helping them cross the hurdles of achieving their first AWS Certification. Due to the combined hard work of the second batch students and the help from their seniors, Evident results began to bloom from March 1, 2024 as the first set of students from the second batch started acing their Certification exams, since then over 30 students from the second batch have now become Certified Cloud Practitioners.
In addition to this, a fascinating development occurred as two more students from our institution Ms. Jeevitha M and Mr. Raghul Chandramouli were selected as Cloud Captains amidst heavy competitions for the second consecutive time and Mr. Raghul Gopal, Our Founder and former Cloud Captain was elected as Community Builder!

Following this spectacle, A DevOps tech talk and a photoshoot for our Certified Students was conducted in our college campus at St Joseph's Group of Institutions which was graced by the presence of Mr. Shawn Ahmed, CPO at CloudBees who interacted with our students and helped them explore into the world of DevOps.

Ultimately, Our Cloud Club and Cloud PEP have made significant and record-breaking feats, as more than 120 students are now successfully Certified in AWS, Azure and Google and many of them are working as interns in DevOps, Machine Learning and as Solution Architects. This wouldn't have been possible without the hardwork of our Staff Coordinators, Placement Department, Student Coordinators and our beloved students.



